# Super Bowl Ads

This is my Data+Files research project on Super Bowl Ads.

## Introduction
My initial interest to this data set on Super Bowl Ads came from my interest in football. However, I love marketing and this data set seemed like a perfect combination. The Super Bowl has been used by advertisers for a while as a way to generate awareness for their products and services by taking advantage of the wide audience this event reaches. Also, super bowl ads in themselves are often a topic of discussion which means additionally exposure if ads are reposted or compiled into a potentially viral video. I thought this data set was interesting because it examined the different characteristics within ads from within a twenty year range. In America, the Super Bowl sometimes seems like a holiday. My first question I attempted to answer was "Are the majority of the ads patriotic?" Secondly, out of curiosity, I asked "Are more ads funny from 2000-2010 or from 2010-2020?" I thought it would be interesting to see, if advertisers have chosen to implement humor into their ads more recently or began to steer away from it.

## Methods
This data set was generated after journalists at FiveThirtyEight watched 233 Super Bowl ads run by ten frequently advertising brands between 2000 and 2020, drawing from the superbowl-ads.com's video archive. They categorized each each according to seven different questions("is it funny?", "is it patriotic?", etc.). The article and data set was published on the FiveThirtyEight website on Feb. 4 of 2021 by Ryan Best. The data set is available to the public because it was published on this website and the gitHub link was provided.  

In order to answer my first question, I needed to retrieve the data that reported whether or not the add was patriotic. From the data set's README, I learned that this question was answered by the 7th item in a line in the .csv file which means if the row was an array, the index I needed to find was 6. Within a while loop that runs for the amount of lines in the data file, I converted the current line (where the scanner is) into an array using the .split() method. From this array, I used an if statement to reveal if the ad was patriotic or not. Based on if the answer was true or false, I incremented a counter variable. After looping through each row of the data set, I checked to see which counter was higher. If it was the "true" one, the data revealed that more ads were patriotic than not and vice versa.

In order to answer my second question, I needed two pieces of data from each ad (row) in the data set. Firstly, I needed to identify what year the add was from. Then, if it was considered funny. Following a similar strategy of my first method, I used a while loop that converted the current line into an array so that it was easier to work with. I learned that the year was at the first index and based on this information my code will go down two different paths. There is an if statement for if the year is between 2000-2010 and if the year falls into the range of 2011-2020. The code in each of these if statements are the same except with one difference. Within the if statements, the code checks if ad is funny based on the string at index four of the row. If "true" is found, it adds "true" to an array list and otherwise it adds "false". Each if statement is adding to a different arrayList this. Subsequently, two arrayLists are created. One containing true/false for 2000-2010 ads and one for 2011-2020 ads. Then, for each arrayList the percentage of true's out of all the answers is calculated. Based on which arrayList has a higher percentage of trues determines which decade contains "funnier" ads.

I challenge I ran into was that my data set file contains numbers to me, but really they are Strings in java because it is a .csv file. This means that I could not use numerical operations such as greater than or equals. However, I learned that I was able to convert strings to numbers using Integer.parseInt("String"). Although, I was able to code without this method, it significantly made my code more readable and more concise.

## Results and Conclusion
My data research showed... 

If I had access to other data sets, I would be interested to see how the performance of these ads correlated to the content or style of them. Knowing if funny versus patriotic ads resulted in more purchases of a product, would help guide advertisers into which styles are most useful. In order to research this, I would need access to a data set that included information on the "success" of each of the ads in my current data set. Perhaps, the data would rank the success of the ad out of ten based on the amount of sales it generated or reposts it got.
